---
layout: post
title: Docker
---

### Docker Laravel
- [Deploying your Laravel/PHP applications in production using Docker
](http://blog.cloud66.com/deploying-your-laravel-php-applications-with-cloud-66/)

## Containers

- Docker-new development environment: No installation / Dockerfile / Build

- Define a container with a Dockerfile. Dockerfile will define what goes on in the environment inside your container.

### Setup `$ docker run hello-world`

- [One-click Docker / Vultr](https://www.vultr.com/docs/one-click-docker)


### Get Started

- `$ docker build -t name .` `$ docker images` `$ docker run -p 4000:80 name`
- `$ docker run -p 4000:80 name` `http://localhost:4000 / $ curl http://localhost:4000`
- `docker run -p 80:80 username/repo:tag` `http://localhost/`

- Run the app in the background, in detached mode: `docker run -d -p 4000:80 friendlyhello` See abbreviated container ID: `docker container ls` End th eprocess: `docker container stop <Container ID>`

### Tag / Publish the image
- `docker tag image username/repository:tag` `$ docker images`
- `docker push username/repository:tag`
- From now on, you can use docker run and run your app on any machine with this command: `docker run -p 4000:80 username/repository:tag `

### Git database

- Git tree `~/Library/Containers/com.docker.docker/Data` `com.docker.driver.amd64-linux`

- `$ docker info` `$ docker info | grep Proxy`

- Fuck

	# Set proxy server, replace host:port with values for your servers
	`ENV http_proxy socks5://127.0.0.1:1080`
	`ENV https_proxy socks5://127.0.0.1:1080`


## Docker-Services

- In a distributed application, different pieces of the app are called “services.” Services are really just “containers in production.”

- Scaling a service changes the number of container instances running that piece of software, assigning more computing resources to the service in the process.

- Define, run, and scale services with the Docker platform – just write a `docker-compose.yml`

- Run the new load-balanced app: `docker swarm init`

	Swarm initialized: current node (su2np68tvril4xcjp20odfbyt) is now a manager.

	To add a worker to this swarm, run the following command:

    docker swarm join --token SWMTKN-1-3tp2gkfp3a4yxp93tf0ozz62isazfbvoldtsusdo06dk725wgq-4eleytibu50vbcnlx8v61b9nq 192.168.65.2:2377

	To add a manager to this swarm, run 'docker swarm join-token manager' and follow the instructions.

- `docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.yml appname` `docker service ls` List the tasks for the service: `docker service ps getstartedlab_web` `docker container ls -q`

- Run `curl -4 http://localhost` or visit that URL in the browser. Either way, the  container ID wil change, demonstrating the load-balancing; with each request, one of the 5 tasks is chosen, in a round-robin fashion, to respond. The container IDs will match your output from the previous command (docker container ls -q).

### Take down the app and the swarm

- Take the app down with `docker stack rm <appName>`
- Take down the swarm `docker swarm leave --force`


## Swarms
- A swarm is a group of machines that are running Docker and joined into a cluster. Join multiple machines into a “Dockerized” cluster called a swarm.

- Deploy this app onto a cluster, running it on multiple machines.

## Set up the swarm
 - Create a cluster / two VMs

    ```
	$ docker-machine create --driver virtualbox myvm1
	Running pre-create checks...
	(myvm1) No default Boot2Docker ISO found locally, downloading the latest release...
	(myvm1) Latest release for github.com/boot2docker/boot2docker is v17.10.0-ce
	(myvm1) Downloading /Users/william/.docker/machine/cache/boot2docker.iso from https://github.com/boot2docker/boot2docker/releases/download/v17.10.0-ce/boot2docker.iso...
	(myvm1) 0%....10%....20%....30%....40%....50%....60%....70%....80%....90%....100%
	Creating machine...
	(myvm1) Copying /Users/william/.docker/machine/cache/boot2docker.iso to /Users/william/.docker/machine/machines/myvm1/boot2docker.iso...
	(myvm1) Creating VirtualBox VM...
	(myvm1) Creating SSH key...
	(myvm1) Starting the VM...
	(myvm1) Check network to re-create if needed...
	(myvm1) Found a new host-only adapter: "vboxnet0"
	(myvm1) Waiting for an IP...
	Waiting for machine to be running, this may take a few minutes...
	Detecting operating system of created instance...
	Waiting for SSH to be available...
	Detecting the provisioner...
	Provisioning with boot2docker...
	Copying certs to the local machine directory...
	Copying certs to the remote machine...
	Setting Docker configuration on the remote daemon...
	Checking connection to Docker...
	Docker is up and running!
	To see how to connect your Docker Client to the Docker Engine running on this virtual machine, run: docker-machine env myvm1
	```
 - List the VMS and get their IP: `docker-machine ls`
 - Initialize the swarm and add nodes:

    ```
    $ docker-machine ssh myvm1 "docker swarm init --advertise-addr 192.168.99.100"
	Swarm initialized: current node (m5ddcbmwk63e2ao182szg8vfq) is now a manager.

	To add a worker to this swarm, run the following command:

    docker swarm join --token SWMTKN-1-4qgigh1juhts0mqfn2kgpxxm1cmt4a5ymow4zah4vrhhlb4tot-82oa8jfmzf6v130ow1dsief73 192.168.99.100:2377

	To add a manager to this swarm, run 'docker swarm join-token manager' and follow the instructions.
    ```

    ```
    $ docker-machine ssh myvm2 "docker swarm join --token SWMTKN-1-4qgigh1juhts0mqfn2kgpxxm1cmt4a5ymow4zah4vrhhlb4tot-82oa8jfmzf6v130ow1dsief73 192.168.99.100:2377"
    This node joined a swarm as a worker.
    ```
- View the nodes in the first swarm `docker-machine ssh myvm1 "docker node ls"`

## Deploy the app on the swarm cluster

- Configure a `docker-machine` shell to the swarm manager. Run `docker-machine env myvm1` to get the command to configure the shell to talk to myvm1.

    ```
    $ docker-machine env myvm1
	export DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY="1"
	export DOCKER_HOST="tcp://192.168.99.100:2376"
	export DOCKER_CERT_PATH="/Users/william/.docker/machine/machines/myvm1"
	export DOCKER_MACHINE_NAME="myvm1"
	# Run this command to configure your shell:
	# eval $(docker-machine env myvm1)
    ```

## Deploy the app on the swarm manager:
- `docker stack deploy -c docker-compose.yml getstartedlab`
- `$ docker stack ps getstartedlab`

## Accessing the cluster:
-The network we created is shared between them and load-balancing. We can access the app from the IP address of either myvm1 or myvm2.

## Cleanup and reboot

- Tear down the stack `docker stack rm getstartedlab`
- Remove swarm `docker-machine ssh myvm2 "docker swarm leave"` on the worker and `docker-machine ssh myvm1 "docker swarm leave --force"` on the manager.
- Unsetting docker-machine shell variable settings `eval $(docker-machine env -u)`


## Stacks
- A stack is a group of interrelated services that share dependencies, and can be orchestrated and scaled together.

- Add a free visualizer service that lets us look at how the swarm is scheduling containers.

- Persist the data, add a Redis database for storing app data.
  - Add a Redis service.
  - Store data. Create a `./data` directory on the manager: `docker-machine ssh myvm1 "mkdir ./data"`
- Deploy and verify that the three services are running as expected.


## Link

- [Installing Docker CE on CentOS 7](https://www.vultr.com/docs/installing-docker-ce-on-centos-7)
